Create Rule “do-you-know-which-environments-you-need-to-provision-when-starting-a-new-project/rule” (#7282)
SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content: rules/do-you-know-which-environments-you-need-to-provision-when-starting-a-new-project/rule.md

---
type: rule
title: Do You Know Which Environments You Need To Provision When Starting A New
  Project?
uri: do-you-know-which-environments-you-need-to-provision-when-starting-a-new-project
authors:
  - title: Daniel Mackay
    url: https://ssw.com.au/people/daniel-mackay/
created: 2023-11-20T05:48:37.152Z
guid: 8d165756-d35e-4d1a-8924-3c4f59523db4
related:
- ephemeral-environments
- do-you-have-separate-development-testing-and-production-environments
---
Before any project can be used by a customer it must first be published to a production environment.  However, in order to provide a robust and uninterrupted service to customers, it is important that the production environment is not used for development or testing purposes.  To ensure this, we must setup a separate environment for each of these purposes.

> 

Reviewer: add a bad example as a diagram

local -> prod

Author: Done.

## What is each environment for?

> * **Production**: Real data being used by real customers

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a few more characteristics of a production environment, like
Full-spec, security, redundancy, backups, etc.

Could move the last sentence from "Staging" and use it for "Production".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Production**: Real data being used by real customers. This is the baseline/high watermark of all your environments. Lower environments will be lower spec, fewer redundancies, less frequent backups, etc. 
```

Author: Added a clarification to PROD as per the suggestion from @wicksipedia.

> * **Staging**: 'Production-like' environment used for final sign-off. Used for testing and verification before deploying to Production. Should be as close to Production as possible e.g. access (avoid giving - developers admin rights), same specs as production (especially during performance testing). However, this is not always the case due to cost implications.  It is important that staging is 'logically equivalent' to production.  This means having the same level or redundancy (e.g. Regions + Zones), back-ups, permissions, and service SLAs.

Reviewer 2: is this a typo? "This means having the same level or redundancy" ??

I think it should read: "This means having the same level of redundancy"

Change from "or redundancy" 
To "of redundancy"

Author: Updated.

> * **Staging**: 'Production-like' environment used for final sign-off. Used for testing and verification before deploying to Production. Should be as close to Production as possible e.g. access (avoid giving - developers admin rights), same specs as production (especially during performance testing). However, this is not always the case due to cost implications.  It is important that staging is 'logically equivalent' to production.  This means having the same level or redundancy (e.g. Regions + Zones), back-ups, permissions, and service SLAs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Staging**: 'Production-like' environment used for final sign-off. Used for testing and verification before deploying to Production. Should be as close to Production as possible e.g. access (avoid giving - developers admin rights), same specs as production (especially during performance testing). However, this is not always the case due to cost implications.  It is important that staging is 'logically equivalent' to production.  This means having the same level of redundancy (e.g. Regions + Zones), back-ups, permissions, and service SLAs.
```

> * **Development**: A place to verify code changes. Typically, simpler or under-specified version of Staging or Production environments aiding in the early identification and troubleshooting of issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Development**: A place to verify code changes. Typically, simpler or under-specified version of Staging or Production environments aiding in the early identification and troubleshooting of issues (especially integration).
```

> * **Ephemeral**: Short-lived environment that is spun up on demand for isolated testing of a branch, and then torn down when the branch is merged or deleted. See more here: [ephemeral environments](https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/ephemeral-environments).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Ephemeral**: Short-lived environment that is spun up on demand for isolated testing of a branch, and then torn down when the branch is merged or deleted. See rule on [ephemeral environments](https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/ephemeral-environments).
```

* **Local**: Developer environment running on their local machine. May be self-contained or include hosted services depending on the project's needs.

## What environments should I create for a new project?

### Large or Multi-Team Projects

> ![Large or Multi-Team Projects Diagram](complex-environments.jpg "Large or Multi-Team Projects")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: good
![Good example - Large or Multi-Team Projects Diagram](complex-environments.jpg "Large or Multi-Team Projects")
:::```

For large projects it's recommended to run 4 hosted environments + 1 local:

* Production
* Staging
* Development
* Ephemeral (if possible)
* Local

> The above is a general recommendation.  Depending on your project's needs you may need to add additional environments such environments for support, training, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above is a general recommendation.  Depending on your project's needs you may need to add additional environments e.g. support, training, etc.
```

### Internal or Small Projects

> ![Internal or Small Projects Diagram](simple-environments.jpg "Internal or Small Projects")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: good
![Good example - Internal or Small Projects have fewer environments](simple-environments.jpg "Internal or Small Projects")
:::
```

---
type: rule
title: Do You Know Which Environments You Need To Provision When Starting A New
  Project?
uri: do-you-know-which-environments-you-need-to-provision-when-starting-a-new-project
authors:
  - title: Daniel Mackay
    url: https://ssw.com.au/people/daniel-mackay/
created: 2023-11-20T05:48:37.152Z
guid: 8d165756-d35e-4d1a-8924-3c4f59523db4
related:
- ephemeral-environments
- do-you-have-separate-development-testing-and-production-environments
---
Before any project can be used by a customer it must first be published to a production environment.  However, in order to provide a robust and uninterrupted service to customers, it is important that the production environment is not used for development or testing purposes.  To ensure this, we must setup a separate environment for each of these purposes.

::: bad

> ![Bad example - Skipping environments](bad-example.jpg "Bad Example")

Reviewer 2: check in your local fork if any other image called "bad-example.jpg" exists...  if not, then all good. Otherwise, rename it to something unique e.g `bad-example-of-skipping-environments.jpg` 

There is a bug in the image processor that causes some confusion with images with the same name - even if they are in different rules/folders. @bradystroud can explain it better if you need it.

Author: Didn't know that.  Thanks for the heads up!

Have renamed the image.
